DISTRIBUTED REPRESENTATION VS COMPETITION OF EXPLANATION

NEED FOR DISTRIBUTED REPRESENTATION IS COMPELLING

In a very general sense, the notion of using a distributed strategy to
represent many different entities seems very compelling.  The idea is that a
small number of neurons can represent a combinatorially large number of
distinct features or entities.

EXISTENCE OF DISTRIBUTED REPRESENTATION IMPLIES COOPERATIVE GROUP OF NEURONS

A neuronal implementation of a distributed representation implies the existence
of a small group of neurons that cooperate to represent many different
features.  For any given input, these neurons all represent some aspect of it.
This implies their receptive fields are all highly overlapping - otherwise,
they wouldn't have access to the same information from the underlying feature,
and thus wouldn't be able to cooperate.

As an aside, during learning, each of these neurons in the group are in some
sense competing for a separate niche to represent the set of patterns
encountered.  It is no use for two neurons in this group to do the same thing -
they must diversify.

SHOULD EACH FEATURE BELONG EXCLUSIVELY TO A SINGLE PARENT FEATURE?

A given entity can occur in any xy pixel position in the input.  Therefore,
neurons in a given layer must occur at a sufficient spatial density to detect
this.  This means that two neighboring neurons in a layer will have largely
overlapping receptive fields.  This means further that one neuron's detection
affects the plausibility of another one detecting the same thing.  It's not
clear whether the proper thing to do is to enforce a winner-take-all approach
to neighboring neurons, or to allow them to share the representational burdon. 

In a probabilistic interpretation, a strong detection of one feature by a
neuron may or may not logically contradict the presence of another feature that
overlaps it.  It depends on the identity of the features being detected.
But, it may be that 


IS A HIERARCHICAL FEATURE REPRESENTATION NECESSARY?

It seems to make intuitive sense, from the reductionist perspective, to
represent complex entities as distinct compositions of simpler entities,
recursively, down to indivisible base patterns.  But, this is a pretty rigid
interpretation, because it is not clear that there is any non-ambiguous way to
divide patterns hierarchically.

LATERAL INHIBITION SEEMS TO HAVE A COMPELLING INTERPRETATION AS 


This problem is somewhat orthogonal to the notion of invariance and equivariance, 
and let's put that aside for now.


